hi this is Nick with best outdoor
basketball today I'm going to give you a
short video and I'm going to give you
five easy steps to make you a better
shooter the first step when shooting is
to make sure that you are aligned and
your foot placement is correct many
coaches will tell their players to be
aligned for the hoop they need to square
their feet for the basket this is
incorrect the actual correct method is
to turn your feet slightly to the left
of your target somewhere between 25 and
45 degrees to the left or right of your
target depending if you're right-handed
or left-handed as you can see that's
what I have here what you should align
to the hoop is your right tip and your
right shoulder this will help you be
more accurate on your shot the second
step is hand placement and I'm going to
show you proper hand placement the right
hand for right-handed players is your
shooting hand it will be right behind
the basketball this is going to follow
through and direct your shot the left
hand is your guide hand the left hand
helps to balance the shot and make sure
that the shot can be followed through
properly
okay both very important elements and
then you can see it right here the third
step of our five steps is you need to
bend your knees and if a lot of players
will say I don't dip when I catch a
basketball to shoot it that's not true
they lose power when they don't do it
tip so when you catch a pass you will
get it in a proper hand position
aligned correctly and you will dip and
beg for your shot so let me show you
that again Pizza Pass step in foot
placement is correct and I have my knees
bent
I am dipping getting ready to come up
for my son the fourth step is to power
up once I'm in the dip in the knee bend
position I will power up from the bottom
that up full power and the shot comes
from the legs so you will dip and power
up for your shot the final step is
extension in follow-through this is the
most important step of the shot and the
most important out of our five steps for
a proper basketball shot so once I dip
and I power up
I will then extend my arms and then
follow through on the follow-through
very important I see a lot of players
who when they follow through their thumb
is out this is not correct when you
shoot and you follow through you want
your thumb in and you want your four
fingers to be spread like this okay kind
of like a stair step the basketball
needs to come off of the index and
middle fingers primarily the pinky and
your ring finger are there to guide but
these two fingers are your most
important fingers when you are shooting
a basketball so your pointer and your
middle finger that is where the ball
should be coming off on the
follow-through so if we put this all
together I'm going to show you what
we're talking about so catch the past
alignment up follow-through
and that is the five steps to improve
your shooting good luck